# Chapter 1
**Data:** recording of known facts about separate objects or events in applications.

**Information** is the semantics conveyed by data. It represents the meaningful context of data items.

**Knowledge** refers to verified information. (add value to data and information)

***Why the need to store data?***

* Data enable an organization to keep records about events that occur.
* Information enables the organization to react and respond to the events.
* Knowledge enables the organization to anticipate events and act appropriately when the events occur.

**Database** is a single, large, organized collection of data that can be used <font color="sktblue">simultaneously</font> by many departments and users. (collection of data that contains information relevant to an enterprise)

**Database design is the organisation of data according to a database model**

In the case of **<u>Relational model</u>**, data are represented in the **form of tables**.

In an **<u>Object model</u>**, the storage objects correspond directly to the objects used by the Object-oriented programming language.

Additional tasks for Relational Model:

* ER diagram (entity-relationship model)

* Normalization



**Database Management System (DBMS)** provides the software tools needed to organize that data in a flexible manner.



SQL statements
 * DML (data manipulation language) to access, modify, retrieve data from the database
 * DDL (data definition language) to specify the data structure



# Chapter 2
**ANSI-SPARC Architecture: ** an abstract design standard for a DBMS, first proposed in ***1975***.

**Database:** A shared collection of logically related data, designed to meet information needs of an organisation.

**Database management system (DBMS):** Software that manages and controls access to the database

**Database application:** Program that interacts with the database at some point in its execution.

**Database system:** A collection of application programs that interact with the database along with the DBMS and the database itself.

**Three levels** of abstraction at which data items can be described:
 - External level (user's view of the database)
 - Conceptual level (community view of the database)
 - Internal level (physical representation of the database on the computer)

**External level:** Describes the part of database that is relevant to a particular user.

**Conceptual level:** Describes what data is stored in database and relationships among the data.

**Base relation:** Corresponding to a named relation in conceptual schema, whose tuples are physically stored in database.

**Internal level:** Describes how the data is stored in the database.

**View:** A virtuwal relation that does not necessarily exist in the database, with the content defined as a query on one or more base relations.

**Schemas:** Overall description of the database. 

- specified in the design process

- not expected to change frequently

- 表示：***R(A<sub>1</sub>, A<sub>2</sub>, ...A<sub>n</sub>)***

   * R is the **<u>name</u>** of the relation

   * A<sub>1</sub>, A<sub>2</sub>, ...A<sub>n</sub> are the **<u>attributes</u>** of the relation


**Instances:** Data in the database at any particular point in time is called a database instance.